## <b>I3C_Controller_Sensor_IBI Example Description</b>

How to handle the I3C controller to obtain accelerometer, gyroscope, and temperature data from the LSM6DSV16X sensor
every time an IBI event occurs.

The goal of this example is to demonstrate how to manage an IBI generated by the LSM6DSV16X sensor
on the X-NUCLEO-IKS4A1A board.

      - Board: NUCLEO-H533RE.
      - SCL Pin: PB6 (Arduino SCL/D15 CN5 pin 10, Morpho CN10 pin3)
      - SDA Pin: PB7 (Arduino SDA/D14 CN5 pin 9, Morpho CN10 pin5)

      - Plug a X-NUCLEO-IKS4A1A (https://www.st.com/en/ecosystems/x-nucleo-iks4a1.html) expansion board
        on arduino connector

At the beginning of the main program, the HAL_Init() function is called to reset all peripherals,
initialize the Flash interface, and the systick. Then, the SystemClock_Config() function
is used to configure the system clock (SYSCLK) to run at 250 MHz.

The I3C peripheral configuration is ensured by the HAL_I3C_Init() function. This function calls the
HAL_I3C_MspInit() function, which implements the configuration of the needed I3C resources according
to the used hardware (CLOCK, GPIO, and NVIC).

The user may update this function to change I3C configuration.

To have a better signal startup, the user must adapt the parameter BusFreeDuration depending on
its hardware constraint. The value of BusFreeDuration set in this example is linked to the Nucleo hardware environment.

Note: To manage data transfer properly, the value HAL_I3C_TXFIFO_THRESHOLD_4_4 in FIFO configuration is not
allowed when there are multiple transmits in the same descriptor.

The I3C communication is then initiated with an I3C Bus timing of 1 MHz as LSM6DSV16X starts in I2C mode at Reset.

In the first communication step, the HAL_I3C_Ctrl_TransmitCCC_IT() function allows the Controller to transfer
the aBroadcast_DISEC_RSTDAA_CCC descriptor, which consists of disabling the LSM6DSV16X interrupt and
resetting the Dynamic address.

In the second communication step, the HAL_I3C_Ctrl_TransmitCCC_IT() function allows the Controller
to transfer the aDirect_SETDASA_CCC descriptor, which consists of assigning a Dynamic address assignment
through the LSM6DSV16X Static address.

In the third communication step, the HAL_I3C_Ctrl_MultipleTransfer_IT() function allows
the Controller to transfer the aDirect_ENEC_GETBCR_CCC descriptor, which consists of enabling the LSM6DSV16X
In-Band Interrupts capability and getting the Bus Characteristics Register (BCR).

Once a BCR has been returned, the controller obtains the device's role and capabilities from the BCR,
then configures the DVR1 register via the HAL_I3C_Ctrl_ConfigBusDevices() function to allow
an IBI acknowledgement from the LSM6DSV16X sensor.

The HAL_I3C_ActivateNotification() function allow the enabling of Asynchronous catching event in
Controller mode using Interrupt.

At this step, the I3C_CtrlTimingComputation() and HAL_I3C_Ctrl_BusCharacteristicConfig() functions allow the
I3C Controller to set the bus speed to 12.5 MHz as LSM6DSV16X.

Then, the controller waits for user action.

When the user presses the USER push-button on the Controller Board, the I3C Controller initiates communication by
sending a PrivateDescriptorConfig descriptor through HAL_I3C_Ctrl_MultipleTransfer_IT() to configure the LSM6DSV16X.

The Controller is informed of the full transfer of the descriptor element
through HAL_I3C_CtrlMultipleXferCpltCallback().

The end of each communication step is monitored through the HAL_I3C_GetState() function result.

In an infinite loop, the controller computes the data received from the LSM6DSV16X sensor and prints it
through Terminal I/O via the periodic task DisplaySensorData() at each display refresh time.

Each time the sensor FIFO is full, the LSM6DSV16X sends an IBI to the controller.
The I3C controller then ACKs the IBI and informs the application when the IBI event treatment is completed
by calling the callback HAL_I3C_NotifyCallback().

At this step, the I3C Controller retrieve Target Dynamic Address with associated data via the HAL_I3C_GetCCCInfo()
function and initiates sensor communication to retrieve all the LSM6DSV16X Temperature, Gyroscope, and accelerometer
data stored in the FIFO through the FlushAllFIFO() function.

NUCLEO-H533RE's LEDs can be used to monitor the transfer status:

 - LED2 is ON when the transmission process is complete.
 - LED2 is OFF when the reception process is complete.
 - LED2 toggle slowly when there is an error in transmission/reception process.

Terminal I/O watch the list of Get Command Code sent by Controller and associated Target data with IDE in debug mode.
Depending of IDE, to watch content of Terminal I/O note that
 - When resorting to EWARM IAR IDE:
   Command Code is displayed on debugger as follows: View --> Terminal I/O

 - When resorting to MDK-ARM KEIL IDE:
   Command Code is displayed on debugger as follows: View --> Serial Viewer --> Debug (printf) Viewer

 - When resorting to STM32CubeIDE:
   Command Code is displayed on debugger as follows: Window--> Show View--> Console.
   In Debug configuration :
   - Window\Debugger, select the Debug probe : ST-LINK(OpenOCD)
   - Window\Startup,add the command "monitor arm semihosting enable"

#### <b>Notes</b>

  1. Care must be taken when using HAL_Delay(), this function provides accurate delay (in milliseconds)
      based on variable incremented in SysTick ISR. This implies that if HAL_Delay() is called from
      a peripheral ISR process, then the SysTick interrupt must have higher priority (numerically lower)
      than the peripheral interrupt. Otherwise the caller ISR process will be blocked.
      To change the SysTick interrupt priority you have to use HAL_NVIC_SetPriority() function.

  2. The application need to ensure that the SysTick time base is always set to 1 millisecond
      to have correct HAL operation.
      
  3. To increase the IBI frequency, tasks executed in the infinite loop must be
     optimized (by disabling the printf function). Additionally, we need to modify the sensor configuration
     to increase the write frequency in the FIFO from 120 Hz to 1.92 kHz..
        - To have an IBI every 50 ms: Uncomment the DISABLE_PRINTF defined in main.h
        - To have an IBI every 1000 ms: Comment the DISABLE_PRINTF defined in main.h

### <b>Keywords</b>

Connectivity, Communication, I3C, Interrupt, Controller, Target, Dynamic Address Assignment, Private,
Transmission, Reception, Multiple transfer, IBI, In-Band-Interrupt, Sensor.

### <b>Directory contents</b>

  - I3C/I3C_Controller_Sensor_IBI/Inc/desc_target1.h            Target Descriptor
  - I3C/I3C_Controller_Sensor_IBI/Inc/stm32h5xx_nucleo_conf.h   BSP configuration file
  - I3C/I3C_Controller_Sensor_IBI/Inc/stm32h5xx_hal_conf.h      HAL configuration file
  - I3C/I3C_Controller_Sensor_IBI/Inc/stm32h5xx_it.h            I3C interrupt handlers header file
  - I3C/I3C_Controller_Sensor_IBI/Inc/main.h                    Header for main.c module
  - I3C/I3C_Controller_Sensor_IBI/Src/stm32h5xx_it.c            I3C interrupt handlers
  - I3C/I3C_Controller_Sensor_IBI/Src/main.c                    Main program
  - I3C/I3C_Controller_Sensor_IBI/Src/system_stm32h5xx.c        STM32H5xx system source file
  - I3C/I3C_Controller_Sensor_IBI/Src/stm32h5xx_hal_msp.c       HAL MSP file

### <b>Hardware and Software environment</b>

  - This example runs on STM32H533RE devices.

  - This example has been tested with NUCLEO-H533RE board and can be
    easily tailored to any other supported device and development board.

  - NUCLEO-H533RE Set-up

  - Plug a X-NUCLEO-IKS4A1A (https://www.st.com/en/ecosystems/x-nucleo-iks4a1.html) expansion board
    on arduino connector.

  - In case of another example use the same sensor have been launched before, prefer to unplug then plug the USB
    cable to reset the sensor, and prevent side effect for this example.

  - Launch the program in debug mode on Controller board side to benefit of Terminal I/O information on Controller side.

### <b>How to use it ?</b>

In order to make the program work, you must do the following :

  - In case of another example use the same sensor have been launched before, prefer to unplug then plug the USB
    cable to reset the sensor, and prevent side effect for this example.
 - Open your preferred toolchain
 - Rebuild all files and load your image into Controller memory (I3C_Controller_Sensor_IBI).
